 Re-running workflows and jobs - GitHub Docs Skip to main content Skip to content GitHub Docs Search or ask Copilot / Menu Collapse sidebar Expand sidebar Scroll breadcrumbs left Home GitHub Actions How-tos Manage workflow runs Re-run workflows and jobs Scroll breadcrumbs right GitHub Actions Get started Quickstart Understand GitHub Actions Continuous integration Continuous deployment Actions vs Apps Concepts Workflows and actions Workflows Variables Contexts Expressions Reusing workflow configurations Custom actions Deployment environments Concurrency Workflow artifacts Dependency caching Notifications for workflow runs Runners GitHub-hosted runners Larger runners Self-hosted runners Private networking Runner groups Runner scale sets Actions Runner Controller Support for ARC Security Secrets GITHUB_TOKEN OpenID Connect Artifact attestations Script injections Compromised runners Kubernetes admissions controller Metrics Billing and usage Policies How-tos Write workflows Use workflow templates Choose when workflows run Trigger a workflow Control jobs with conditions Control workflow concurrency Choose where workflows run Choose the runner for a job Run jobs in a container Choose what workflows do Use jobs Find and customize actions Use GitHub CLI Add scripts Use secrets Use variables Pass job outputs Set default values for jobs Deploy to environment Run job variations Reuse automations Reuse workflows Create workflow templates Share across private repositories Share with your organization Secure your work Use artifact attestations Use artifact attestations Increase security rating Enforce artifact attestations Verify attestations offline Manage attestations Security harden deployments OIDC in AWS OIDC in Azure OIDC in Google Cloud Platform OIDC in HashiCorp Vault OIDC in JFrog OIDC in Octopus Deploy OIDC in PyPI OIDC in cloud providers OIDC with reusable workflows Deploy Configure and manage deployments Control deployments View deployment history Manage environments Review deployments Create custom protection rules Configure custom protection rules Deploy to third-party platforms Node.js to Azure App Service Python to Azure App Service Java to Azure App Service .NET to Azure App Service PHP to Azure App Service Docker to Azure App Service Azure Static Web App Azure Kubernetes Service Amazon Elastic Container Service Google Kubernetes Engine Sign Xcode applications Create and publish actions Manage custom actions Create a CLI action Set exit codes Publish in GitHub Marketplace Release and maintain actions Use immutable releases Manage workflow runs Manually run a workflow Re-run workflows and jobs Cancel a workflow run Disable and enable workflows Skip workflow runs Delete a workflow run Download workflow artifacts Remove workflow artifacts Manage caches Approve runs from forks Manage runners GitHub-hosted runners Use GitHub-hosted runners Customize runners View current jobs Connect to a private network Connect with OIDC Connect with WireGuard Self-hosted runners Add runners Run scripts Customize containers Configure the application Apply labels Use in a workflow Manage access Monitor and troubleshoot Remove runners Larger runners Manage larger runners Control access Use larger runners Use custom images Actions Runner Controller Authenticate to the API Deploy runner scale sets Use ARC in a workflow Use proxy servers Monitor workflows Use the visualization graph View workflow run history View job execution time Add a status badge Use workflow run logs View job condition logs Enable debug logging Troubleshoot workflows Administer Control workflow execution View metrics Get support Reference Workflows and actions Workflow syntax Events that trigger workflows Workflow commands Variables Expressions Contexts Deployments and environments Dependency caching Reusing workflow configurations Metadata syntax Workflow cancellation Dockerfile support Runners GitHub-hosted runners Larger runners Self-hosted runners Security Secure use Securely using pull_request_target Secrets OIDC Limits GitHub Actions Importer Supplemental arguments and settings Custom transformers Tutorials Create an example workflow Build and test code Go Java with Ant Java with Gradle Java with Maven .NET Node.js PowerShell Python Ruby Rust Swift Xamarin apps Authenticate with GITHUB_TOKEN Migrate to GitHub runners Create actions Create a JavaScript action Create a composite action Publish packages Publish Docker images Publish Java packages with Gradle Publish Java packages with Maven Publish Node.js packages Manage your work Add labels to issues Close inactive issues Add comments with labels Schedule issue creation Store and share data Use containerized services Create a Docker container action Use Docker service containers Create PostgreSQL service containers Create Redis service containers Migrate to GitHub Actions Automated migrations Use GitHub Actions Importer Azure DevOps migration Bamboo migration Bitbucket Pipelines migration CircleCI migration GitLab migration Jenkins migration Travis CI migration Manual migrations Migrate from Azure Pipelines Migrate from CircleCI Migrate from GitLab CI/CD Migrate from Jenkins Migrate from Travis CI Actions Runner Controller Get started Troubleshoot Develop agentic workflows In this article Re-running workflows and jobs You can re-run a workflow run, all failed jobs in a workflow run, or specific jobs in a workflow run up to 30 days after its initial run. Copy markdown Who can use this feature? People with write permissions to a repository can re-run workflows in the repository. Tool navigation GitHub CLI Web browser In this article Re-running all the jobs in a workflow Re-running failed jobs in a workflow Re-running a specific job in a workflow Reviewing previous workflow runs Re-runs use the privileges of the actor who initially triggered the workflow, not the privileges of the actor who initiated the re-run. The workflow will also use the same GITHUB_SHA (commit SHA) and GITHUB_REF (git ref) of the original event that triggered the workflow run. A workflow run can be re-run a maximum of 50 times. This limit includes both full re-runs and re-runs of a subset of jobs. Re-running all the jobs in a workflow On GitHub, navigate to the main page of the repository. Under your repository name, click Actions . In the left sidebar, click the workflow you want to see. From the list of workflow runs, click the name of the run to see the workflow run summary. In the upper-right corner of the workflow, re-run jobs. If any jobs failed, select the Re-run jobs dropdown menu and click Re-run all jobs . If no jobs failed, click Re-run all jobs . Optionally, to enable runner diagnostic logging and step debug logging for the re-run, select Enable debug logging . For more information, see Enabling debug logging . Click Re-run jobs . To re-run a failed workflow run, use the run rerun subcommand, replacing RUN_ID with the ID of the failed run that you want to re-run. If you don't specify a run-id , GitHub CLI returns an interactive menu for you to choose a recent failed run. Shell gh run rerun RUN_ID gh run rerun RUN_ID To enable runner diagnostic logging and step debug logging for the re-run, use the --debug flag. Shell gh run rerun RUN_ID --debug gh run rerun RUN_ID --debug To view the progress of the workflow run, use the run watch subcommand and select the run from the interactive list. Shell gh run watch gh run watch Re-running failed jobs in a workflow On GitHub, navigate to the main page of the repository. Under your repository name, click Actions . In the left sidebar, click the workflow you want to see. From the list of workflow runs, click the name of the run to see the workflow run summary. In the upper-right corner of the workflow, select the Re-run jobs dropdown menu, and click Re-run failed jobs . Optionally, to enable runner diagnostic logging and step debug logging for the re-run, select Enable debug logging . For more information, see Enabling debug logging . Click Re-run jobs . To re-run failed jobs in a workflow run, use the run rerun subcommand with the --failed flag. Replace RUN_ID with the ID of the run for which you want to re-run failed jobs. If you don't specify a run-id , GitHub CLI returns an interactive menu for you to choose a recent failed run. gh run rerun RUN_ID --failed To enable runner diagnostic logging and step debug logging for the re-run, use the --debug flag. gh run rerun RUN_ID --failed --debug Re-running a specific job in a workflow On GitHub, navigate to the main page of the repository. Under your repository name, click Actions . In the left sidebar, click the workflow you want to see. From the list of workflow runs, click the name of the run to see the workflow run summary. Under the "Jobs" section of the left sidebar, next to the job that you want to re-run, click . Optionally, to enable runner diagnostic logging and step debug logging for the re-run, select Enable debug logging . For more information, see Enabling debug logging . Click Re-run jobs . To re-run a specific job in a workflow run, use the run rerun subcommand with the --job flag. Replace JOB_ID with the ID of the job that you want to re-run. gh run rerun --job JOB_ID To enable runner diagnostic logging and step debug logging for the re-run, use the --debug flag. gh run rerun --job JOB_ID --debug Reviewing previous workflow runs On GitHub, navigate to the main page of the repository. Under your repository name, click Actions . In the left sidebar, click the workflow you want to see. From the list of workflow runs, click the name of the run to see the workflow run summary. To the right of the run name, select the Latest dropdown menu and click a previous run attempt. Back to top Help and support Was this Doc helpful? Yes No Help us make GitHub Docs great! All Docs are open source. See something that's wrong or unclear? Submit a pull request. Make a contribution Still need help? Ask the GitHub community Contact support Expert services Blog GitHub Inc. © 2026 Terms Privacy Status Pricing 