Activity Execution | Temporal Documentation Skip to main content Home Courses SDKs Durable AI Code Exchange Temporal Cloud Ask AI Search Home Quickstarts Evaluate Develop Temporal Cloud Deploy to production CLI (temporal) Design Patterns Durable AI References Troubleshooting Best practices Encyclopedia Temporal Architecture Temporal Client Workflows Activities Activity Definition Activity Execution Workflow Activity Standalone Activity Local Activity Activity Operations Failures and error handling Workers Event History Workflow Message Passing Child Workflows Visibility Temporal Service Namespaces Temporal Nexus Extensibility Web UI Interactive Demos Guides Integrations Glossary Develop with AI Encyclopedia Activities Activity Execution On this page For the complete documentation index, see /llms.txt . This page is also available as raw Markdown at /activity-execution.md . Append .md to any page URL to fetch its Markdown. Activity Execution Copy for LLM View Markdown This page discusses the following: Activity Execution Activity Execution Lifecycle Cancellation Activity ID Asynchronous Activity Completion Task Token When an Activity caller starts an Activity , an Activity Execution is created that orchestrates its full lifecycle, including retries. Workflow Activities and Standalone Activities are durable Activity Executions that live in the Temporal Service. They dispatch Tasks to Activity Workers using an Activity Task Queue and collect results to determine next steps. How can an Activity be invoked? ​ Once an Activity function has been defined and registred in a Worker it can be invoked in different ways. Workflow Activity Executions ​ A Workflow Activity is started as a step in a Workflow using the Temporal SDK and its lifetime is scoped to the Workflow. The Workflow schedules the Activity, and the result is delivered back to the Workflow when the Activity Execution closes. Each step is recorded in the Workflow Execution's Event History , for example the Workflow ActivityTaskCompleted Event. For other related Events, see Workflow Activity Events . GET STARTED Start a Workflow Activity: Go | Java | PHP | Python | TypeScript | .NET | Ruby | Rust Standalone Activity Executions ​ A Standalone Activity is an independent top-level execution, started directly by a Temporal SDK Client , with its own lifetime. The Client gets a handle and fetches the result through it. Because there's no Workflow, there is no Workflow Event History. Standalone Activities use a separate ID space for deduplication and uniqueness and provide full visibility and lifecycle control . Standalone Activity Workflow Activity Started by Client Workflow code Lifetime Independent top-level execution Scoped to the Workflow Run Result delivered to The Client, through a handle The Workflow Recorded in Event History No Workflow, so no Event History Yes Activity ID space Separate ID space Scoped to the Workflow Run Best for Durable job processing Multi-step orchestration GET STARTED Start a Standalone Activity: Go | Python | Java | .NET | TypeScript | Ruby | Rust Local Activity Executions ​ When specific performance optimizations are more important than full durability, an Activity may be executed in the same process as a Workflow (a Local Activity ), bypassing the regular Activity Execution and Task Queue. tip Local Activities are not a replacement for regular Activities, since they bypass the regular Activity Execution lifecycle and lack full durability. Activity Execution lifecycle ​ Workflow Activities and Standalone Activities use the regular Activity Execution lifecycle, which includes the full chain of Activity Task Executions . Activity Execution You can customize Activity Execution timeouts and retry policies . If an Activity Execution fails (because it exhausted all retries, threw a non-retryable error , or was canceled), the error is returned to your Workflow code when it attempts to fetch the Activity result. For Standalone Activities the error is returned to the Client when you attempt to fetch the Activity result. info Temporal guarantees that an Activity Task either runs or timeouts. There are multiple failure scenarios when an Activity Task is lost. It can be lost during delivery to a Worker or after the Activity Function is called and the Worker crashed. Temporal doesn't detect task loss directly. It relies on Start-To-Close timeout . If the Activity Task times out, the Activity Execution will be retried according to the Activity Execution Retry Policy. In scenarios where the Activity Execution Retry Policy is set to 1 and a Timeout occurs, the Activity Execution will not be tried. Cancellation ​ Activity Cancellation: lets the Activity know it doesn't need to keep doing work, and gives the Activity time to clean up any resources it has created. Activities must heartbeat to receive cancellations from a Temporal Service. An Activity may receive Cancellation if: The Activity was requested to be Cancelled. This can often cascade from Workflow Cancellation, but not always—SDKs have ways to stop Cancellation from cascading. The Activity was considered failed by the Server because any of the Activity timeouts have triggered (for example, the Server didn't receive a heartbeat within the Activity's Heartbeat timeout). The Cancelled Failure that the Activity receives will have message: 'TIMED_OUT' . The Workflow Run reached a Closed state , in which case the Cancelled Failure will have message: 'NOT_FOUND' . In some SDKs: The Worker is shutting down. An Activity sends a Heartbeat but the Heartbeat details can't be converted by the Worker's configured Data Converter . This fails the Activity Task Execution with an Application Failure. The Activity timed out on the Worker side and is not Heartbeating or the Temporal Service hasn't relayed a Cancellation. There are different ways to receive Cancellation depending on the SDK. An Activity may accept or ignore Cancellation: To allow Cancellation to happen, let the Cancellation Failure propagate. To ignore Cancellation, catch it and continue executing. Some SDKs have ways to shield tasks from being stopped while still letting the Cancellation propagate. The Workflow can also decide if it wants to wait for the Activity Cancellation to be accepted or to proceed without waiting. Cancellation can only be requested a single time. If you try to cancel your Activity Execution more than once, it will not receive more than one Cancellation request. What is an Activity ID? ​ The identifier for an Activity Execution . The identifier can be generated by the system, or it can be provided by the Workflow code that spawns the Activity Execution. The identifier is unique among the open Activity Executions of a Workflow Run . (A single Workflow Run may reuse an Activity ID if an earlier Activity Execution with the same ID has closed.) An Activity ID can be used to complete the Activity asynchronously . Standalone Activities have a separate ID space from the Workflow ID space for deduplication and uniqueness. What is Asynchronous Activity Completion? ​ Asynchronous Activity Completion is a feature that enables an Activity Function to return without causing the Activity Execution to complete. The Temporal Client can then be used from anywhere to both Heartbeat Activity Execution progress and eventually complete the Activity Execution and provide a result. GET STARTED Complete an Activity Asynchronously: Go | Java | PHP | Python | TypeScript | .NET | Ruby When to use Async Completion ​ When an external system has the final result of a computation that is started by an Activity, there are three main ways of getting the result to the Workflow: The external system uses Async Completion to complete the Activity with the result. The Activity completes normally, without the result. Later, the external system sends a Signal to the Workflow with the result. A subsequent Activity polls the external system for the result. If you don't have control over the external system — that is, you can't add Async Completion or a Signal to its code — then: you can poll (#3), or if the external system can reliably call a webhook (and retry calling in the case of failure), you can write a webhook handler that sends a Signal to the Workflow (#2). The decision between using #1 vs #2 involves a few factors. Use Async Completion if: the external system is unreliable and might fail to Signal, or you want the external process to Heartbeat or receive Cancellation. Otherwise, if the external system can reliably be trusted to do the task and Signal back with the result, and it doesn't need to Heartbeat or receive Cancellation, then you may want to use Signals. The benefit to using Signals has to do with the timing of failure retries. For example, consider an external process that is waiting for a human to review something and respond, and they could take up to a week to do so. If you use Async Completion (#1), you would: set a Start-To-Close Timeout of one week on the Activity, in the Activity, notify the external process you need the human review, and have the external process Asynchronously Complete the Activity when the human responds. If the Activity fails on the second step to notify the external system and doesn't throw an error (for example, if the Worker dies), then the Activity won't be retried for a week, when the Start-To-Close Timeout is hit. If you use Signals, you would: set a Start-To-Close Timeout of one minute on the Activity, in the Activity, notify the external process you need the human review, complete the Activity without the result, and have the external process Signal the Workflow when the human responds. If the Activity fails on the second step to notify the external system and doesn't throw an error, then the Activity will be retried in a minute. In the second scenario, the failure is retried sooner. This is particularly helpful in scenarios like this in which the external process might take a long time. What is a Task Token? ​ A Task Token is a unique identifier for an Activity Task Execution . Asynchronous Activity Completion calls take either of the following as arguments: a Task Token, or an Activity ID , a Workflow ID , and optionally a Run ID . Since a Task Token is unique for an Activity execution, retries can cause a remote service using the Task Token to end up with an invalid one. For example, an Activity might fail after passing its current Task Token to a remote service, but before returning the complete async error, leaving that service with a Task Token that's no longer valid. To avoid this risk, you can provide the Activity ID and Workflow ID to the remote service instead of the Task Token. Tags: Concepts Activities Durable Execution Job Queue Help us make Temporal better. View this page on GitHub. Previous Activity Definition Next Workflow Activity How can an Activity be invoked? Workflow Activity Executions Standalone Activity Executions Local Activity Executions Activity Execution lifecycle Cancellation What is an Activity ID? What is Asynchronous Activity Completion? When to use Async Completion What is a Task Token? Resources Glossary Learn Temporal Code Exchange Blog YouTube Support forum Ask an expert Company Temporal Cloud GitHub Trust Center Security Changelog For agents Develop with AI llms.txt Copyright © 2026 Temporal Technologies Inc. Your Privacy Choices